# YosemiteClimbingRoutes
This is a dataset describing the various recorded climbing routes in Yosemite National Park. 


This page contains the following:


 - Raw data file on the climbing routes in Yosemite National Park in CSV format


 - XML text on the dataset metadata in text file format


 - Unstructured data and metadata profile information in Word Document format


 - Unstructured data repository profile information in Word Document format


 - Addition information and considerations document for the data Recommended Data Citation 


Considerations for Long-term Preservation: 

        This dataset is accurate as of February 2023 and is outdated at any point after that time. 
	Bouldering data can very quickly become out-of-date due to the nature of the routes, as the environment around 
	the routes changes so too does the nature (and thus collected metadata) of the routes. The data should therefore 
	be treated as historical data. Given that this historical data can still have foreseeable and unforeseeable use 
	to boulders, land management organizations, the national park, and more not-yet-identified entities it is vital 
	to continue to preserve this data even if it is not up-to-date. 

        Preservation for this data should include storage on a repository, at the time of creation of this GitHub page 
	there are plans to store the data on the OpenBeta repository; on the cloud, currently it resides on the GitHub 
	page which meets this requirement; and on a hard drive, which at this time is the GitHub page creator’s desktop. 
	This process ensures that there are back-up copies of the dataset should any data loss or corruption occur on one 
	of these storage platforms. 

	The data should remain in a JSON, CSV, or Python Pickle file format to ensure readability and protect against 
	possible data corruption when switching between file types. CSV is the preferred format as it requires no special 
	skills or software to read the dataset (and thus use the dataset).  

	Ideally, the file is routinely checked agains a hash to ensure that no corruption has occurred. 
	The hash for the CSV file of this data is: 


Copy Right License Information: 

	There is no copy right information for this data. This is open source data that will be stored on an open source repository. 


Human Subject Considerations: 

	This dataset does not include any human subject related data or identification. Therefore, there is no need for 
	additional considerations for this sensitive data type. 
